Blog post about Posit::Conf() video submissions (#378)
rladies/rladies.github.io: content/blog/2025-02-03-submit_posit_conf/index.en.md

---
title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf"
author: 
  - Nic Crane
  - Sayantika Banik
date: '2025-02-03'
---

Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You are not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is it is just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.

## **Tips from Past Speakers**

We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we collated some advice from past speakers:

> 📽  **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachael in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📽  **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [[Read more excellent advise from Rachael in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).]
```

> 📽   **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachael in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📽  **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachael in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).
```

> 📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🎤 **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]
```

 - `QuickTime (Mac)`: If you have a Mac, QuickTime Player has a built-in screen recording feature. You can record your screen and your webcam simultaneously.
 - `Zoom (App/Web)`: Zoom's built-in recording feature makes it easy to capture your screen and webcam simultaneously. Share your slides, practice your one-minute pitch, and download the MP4 file for submission

#### Slightly Advanced (Free/Open Source):
 - `OBS Studio (Windows, Mac, Linux)`: OBS Studio is free and open-source, offering more control over your recording, including screen capture, webcam input, and basic audio mixing. While powerful, it might have a small learning curve.
 - `VLC Media Player (Windows, Mac, Linux)`: VLC can also be used for basic recording. It's a versatile player that can capture video from your webcam. 

#### User Friendly (Paid):
 - `Canva`: offers a user-friendly platform with recording capabilities. You can easily create slides with your key points and record yourself presenting them. Canva also provides editing features to polish your video.

## **How to Structure Your Video**

Here's a simple way to approach your **one-minute** video:

> ### **1. Start with the Basics**

Reviewer 2: When you look at the preview, the use of bolding and header level is inconsistent; for example, see two highlighted rows here. I suggest removing bolding and adjusting header level to be smaller.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2a3cbe8b-69d3-439b-93b9-d1a197b89ba7)

Introduce yourself and your idea. Pull from the abstract of your talk and expand slightly to explain what your talk is about.

### **2. Share Why It Matters**

> Why is your idea important to you? Why does it excite you? People love to see genuine enthusiasm—it's contagious! Highlight why your topic could be interesting or helpful to the audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is your idea important to you? Why does it excite you? People love to see genuine enthusiasm - it is contagious! Highlight why your topic could be interesting or helpful to the audience.
```

### **3. Keep It Conversational**

> Talk as if you're **explaining to a friend,** not reading from a script. Keep it engaging and natural.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Talk as if you are **explaining to a friend,** not reading from a script. Keep it engaging and natural.
```

### **4. Speak Clearly & With Energy**

Passion is contagious! **Slow down a bit,** use your voice expressively, and **have fun with it.**

### **5. Don't Worry About Perfection**

> Your video doesn't need to be flawless—just **authentic**. If selected, you'll get speaker training!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your video doesn't need to be flawless - just **authentic**. If selected, you will get speaker training!
```

### **6. Humor and Creativity are Welcome**

If your idea lends itself to something quirky or funny, don't shy away. Even if your topic seems niche, an engaging presentation can make it appealing to everyone.  But don't worry if you are not naturally funny either - this is only optional.

## **Tips for Success**

> * **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you're great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you are great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  
```

* **Keep It Simple:** Your video doesn't need to be polished or perfect. Focus on your enthusiasm and message.  
* **Check Out Examples:** Watch [other video abstracts](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) for inspiration.

## **Need Feedback?**

> If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and a reviewer will take a look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and a reviewer will take a look.
```

> If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and a reviewer will take a look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and we will assign a reviewer to take a look at it.  If you want feedback on a specific aspects of the video, please mention in the form, otherwise we will assume you're looking for general feedback.
```

> If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and we will assign a reviewer to take a look at it.  If you want feedback on a specific aspects of the video, please mention in the form, otherwise we will assume you're looking for general feedback.

Reviewer 2: be explicit that the "draft" is an initial recording that they get feedback on.

---

> title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf 2025"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf"
```

author: 
  - Nic Crane
  - Sayantika Banik
date: '2025-02-03'
---

> Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You're not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is—it's just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You are not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is it is just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.
```

## **Tips from the R-Ladies Global Team**

We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we asked members of **R-Ladies Global** to share their best advice:

> 📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting expected to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]
```

💡 **Nic Crane**: Check out the [Posit blog post which tells you what they're looking for](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) and has examples of past submissions.  Before recording, I try to get myself pumped up with energy by doing a dummy run pretending my idea is the most interesting thing I've heard in my entire life, with exaggerated enthusiasm, so then the normal version I do immediately afterwards has a bit of bounce to it.

> 📽  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📽   **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachel in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).

```

### **3. Keep It Conversational**

Talk as if you're **explaining to a friend,** not reading from a script. Keep it engaging and natural.

### **4. Speak Clearly & With Energy**

Passion is contagious! **Slow down a bit,** use your voice expressively, and **have fun with it.**

### **5. Don't Worry About Perfection**

Your video doesn't need to be flawless—just **authentic**. If selected, you'll get speaker training!

### **6. Humor and Creativity are Welcome**

If your idea lends itself to something quirky or funny, don't shy away. Even if your topic seems niche, an engaging presentation can make it appealing to everyone.  But don't worry if you're not naturally funny either - this is only optional.

## **Tips for Success**

* **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you're great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  
* **Keep It Simple:** Your video doesn't need to be polished or perfect. Focus on your enthusiasm and message.  
* **Check Out Examples:** Watch [other video abstracts](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) for inspiration.

## **Need Feedback?**

> If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and if you're submitting a video then also include a link to a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and a reviewer will take a look.
```

---
title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf"
author: 
  - Nic Crane
  - Sayantika Banik

> date: '2025-02-03'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: '2025-02-06'
```

---

Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You are not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is it is just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.

## **Tips from Past Speakers**

We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we collated some advice from past speakers:

📽  **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [[Read more excellent advise from Rachael in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).]

> 🎤 **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🎤 **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/).]
```

> ## **Tips from the R-Ladies Global Team**
> 
> We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we asked members of **R-Ladies Global** to share their best advice:
> 
> 📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]
> 
> 💡 **Nic Crane**: Check out the [Posit blog post which tells you what they're looking for](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) and has examples of past submissions.  Before recording, I try to get myself pumped up with energy by doing a dummy run pretending my idea is the most interesting thing I've heard in my entire life, with exaggerated enthusiasm, so then the normal version I do immediately afterwards has a bit of bounce to it.
> 
> 📽   **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachel in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).
> 
> 
> 🎤  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*
> 
> 💡  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Tips from Past Speakers**

We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we collated some advice from past speakers:

📽   **Rachael Dempsey**: Go ahead and set a date and time on your calendar and block it off to record your video. 🗓 I had blocked off a Friday afternoon at 2pm. Give yourself a bit more time than you think you need. You might record yourself about 4+ times. [Read more excellent advise from Rachel in this detailed LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/).

📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]

💡 **Nic Crane**: Check out the [Posit blog post which tells you what they're looking for](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) and has examples of past submissions.  Before recording, I try to get myself pumped up with energy by doing a dummy run pretending my idea is the most interesting thing I've heard in my entire life, with exaggerated enthusiasm, so then the normal version I do immediately afterwards has a bit of bounce to it.
```

 - `Zoom (App/Web)`: Zoom's built-in recording feature makes it easy to capture your screen and webcam simultaneously. Share your slides, practice your one-minute pitch, and download the MP4 file for submission

#### Slightly Advanced (Free/Open Source):
 - `OBS Studio (Windows, Mac, Linux)`: OBS Studio is free and open-source, offering more control over your recording, including screen capture, webcam input, and basic audio mixing. While powerful, it might have a small learning curve.
 - `VLC Media Player (Windows, Mac, Linux)`: VLC can also be used for basic recording. It's a versatile player that can capture video from your webcam. 

#### User Friendly (Paid):
 - `Canva`: offers a user-friendly platform with recording capabilities. You can easily create slides with your key points and record yourself presenting them. Canva also provides editing features to polish your video.

> ## How to Structure Your Video

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **How to Structure Your Video**
```

#### 6. Humor and Creativity are Welcome

If your idea lends itself to something quirky or funny, don't shy away. Even if your topic seems niche, an engaging presentation can make it appealing to everyone.  But don't worry if you are not naturally funny either - this is only optional.

## **Tips for Success**

* **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you are great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  
* **Keep It Simple:** Your video doesn't need to be polished or perfect. Focus on your enthusiasm and message.  
* **Check Out Examples:** Watch [other video abstracts](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) for inspiration.

## **Need Feedback?**

If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar), and we will assign a reviewer.

- **Abstract** : Paste your abstract in a Google Doc/other sharable medium for review.

- **Video Draft** : Share a link to your draft recording. The recording could be uploaded to Google Drive, YouTube (unlisted), Vimeo, or any other sharable platform.

> If you want feedback on specific aspects of your video (e.g., pacing, clarity, or technical quality), please mention it in the form. Otherwise, we will assume you’re looking for general feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By "video draft" we mean an initial recording that reviewers will offer one round of feedback on.  If you want feedback on specific aspects of your video (e.g., pacing, clarity, or technical quality), please mention it in the form. Otherwise, we will assume you’re looking for general feedback.
```

Although we encourage submitting at least 3 weeks from the final deadline, there is still a chance we will be able to pair you up with a reviewer with a shorter timeline, so just do it.

> Posit Conf's Call for talks: https://posit.co/blog/speak-at-posit-conf-2025/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Posit Conf's Call for talks: https://posit.co/blog/speak-at-posit-conf-2025/.
```

> Our abstract review system: https://airtable.com/appJadVolZxoDGSIK/pagkXaAIuPged83dn/form

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Form to [Request Feedback for Your Abstract or Scholarship Application](https://airtable.com/appJadVolZxoDGSIK/pagkXaAIuPged83dn/form).
```
